Document data model (#39237)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/sbo-data-model.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *openshift-docs/applications/connecting_applications_to_services/exposing-binding-data-from-a-service
[id="sbo-data-model_{context}"]
= Data model

> Service binding annotations follow the convention:

Author: Great choice of words; looks better now, Thanks! :)

[source,yaml]
----

> service.binding(/<NAME>)?: "<VALUE>|(path=<JSONPATH_TEMPLATE>(,objectType=<OBJECT_TYPE)?(,elementType=<ELEMENT_TYPE>)?(,sourceKey=<SOURCE_KEY>)?(,sourceValue=<SOURCE_VALUE>)?)"

Reviewer: there is no closing `>` for `OBJECT_TYPE`. It should be `<OBJECT_TYPE>`

Author: Addressed.

----
where:
[horizontal]

> `<NAME>`:: Specifies the name under which the binding value is going to be exposed. It can be excluded only when the `objectType` parameter is set to `Secret` or `ConfigMap`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`<NAME>`:: Specifies the name under which the binding value is going to be exposed. You can exclude it only when the `objectType` parameter is set to `Secret` or `ConfigMap`.
```
Not sure if this absolutely necessary in this case, but here's one way of avoiding passive voice here.

Author: @bburt-rh Thanks for the suggestions!

> Edit to avoid using the future tense.
The value is going to be exposed in the future and we need to specify it clearly here. Hence I am changing this to: "Specifies the name under which the binding value is to be exposed."

> `<VALUE>`:: Specifies the constant value exposed when no `path` is set.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. Good idea!

I am ok with breaking the long line of code. But prefer to retain the callout format as it is impractical to put the call out in the middle of the code especially for the Value part as there is also an option to set the path. We define the path expression in the table down as it is complex. And it does not feel ok to put the callout at the end of the 2nd line or break the 2nd line only at value.
Here is the guideline I have followed: "Also, If you must provide additional information on what a line of a code block represents and the use of callouts is impractical, you can use a description list to provide information about the variables in the code block."

> `<VALUE>`:: Specifies the constant value exposed, when no `path` is set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`<VALUE>`:: Specifies the constant value exposed when no `path` is set.
```
No comma needed.

> This section explains the data model used in the annotations and OLM descriptors. The data model is the same for custom resource definition (CRD) or custom resource (CR) annotations and Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) descriptors, but the syntax is different, which is explained in the respective sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains the data model used in the annotations and OLM descriptors. The data model is the same for custom resource definition (CRD) or custom resource (CR) annotations and Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) descriptors, but the syntax differs. The following sections explain [what exactly?].
```
What do the following sections explain? The differences? The similarities? The data model? The annotations? The descriptors? It's not clear to me from the original wording implies that the sections will describe the differences only. (Lmk if you need further clarification on what I mean here.)

Author: @bburt-rh The sentence is clearly saying that the syntax is different and that is explained in the sections under [Categories of exposable binding data](https://deploy-preview-39237--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/applications/connecting_applications_to_services/exposing-binding-data-from-a-service#sbo-categories-of-exposable-binding-data_exposing-binding-data-from-a-service). But we cannot use internal links within modules :(

Please suggest a better way to address this? Else, we can remove that sentence and keep "... but the syntax differs". WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I understand. It's another one of those cases where an internal link would be very useful. But since we can't do that, I think it's OK jut to end the sentence with `...but the syntax differs`

> The data model provides the details on the allowed values and semantic for the `path`, `elementType`, `objectType`, `sourceKey`, and `sourceValue` parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data model provides the details on the allowed values and semantic for the `path`, `elementType`, `objectType`, `sourceKey`, and `sourceValue` parameters.
```
Not sure what `semantic` means here. It's usually used only as an adjective and not a noun. Should it be `syntax` instead?

Author: Nope, it is semantic here. It relates to the meaning of the phrases or logic that the user needs to know when using these parameters and their values. OCP docs use this word in this context. The OCP users, as cluster admins and backing service authors, are aware of this word, usage, and context.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification @Srivaralakshmi. That makes sense. I've never seen that word used that way until now. I've learned something new, so thanks again for the explanation!

> .Parameters and their descriptions

Reviewer: just checked https://redhat-developer.github.io/service-binding-operator/userguide/exposing-binding-data/intro-expose-binding.html#_data_model and seeing that the section differs from the content in this PR. Why is that so?

Author: The content in the https://redhat-developer.github.io/service-binding-operator/userguide/exposing-binding-data/intro-expose-binding.html#_data_model is quite complex for the user interpretation. Hence we have simplified it. I will raise a JIRA issue and also a PR to do some edits in the upstream content. The difference in the content will be addressed as part of the work.

[cols="3,6,4",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter
|Description
|Default value

|`path` (mandatory)
|JSONPath template that consists JSONPath expressions enclosed by curly braces {}.
|N/A

|`elementType`
a|Specifies whether the value of the element referenced in the `path` parameter complies with any one of the following types:

* `string`
* `sliceOfStrings`
* `sliceOfMaps`
|`string`

|`objectType`
|Specifies whether the value of the element indicated in the `path` parameter refers to a `ConfigMap`, `Secret`, or plain string in the current namespace.
|`Secret`, if `elementType` is non-string.

|`sourceKey`

> a|Specifies the key in the `ConfigMap` or `Secret` resource that is to be added to the binding secret when collecting the binding data. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a|Specifies the key in the `ConfigMap` or `Secret` resource to be added to the binding secret when collecting the binding data. +
```

Note:

* When used in conjunction with `elementType`=`sliceOfMaps`, the `sourceKey` parameter specifies the key in the slice of maps whose value is used as a key in the binding secret.

> * Use this optional parameter if you want to expose a specific entry in the referenced `Secret` or `ConfigMap` resource as binding data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use this optional parameter to expose a specific entry in the referenced `Secret` or `ConfigMap` resource as binding data.
```
Consider omitting to tighten up the phrasing.

* When not specified, all keys and values from the `Secret` or `ConfigMap` resource are exposed and are added to the binding secret.
|N/A

|`sourceValue`
a|Specifies the key in the slice of maps. +

Note:

> * The value of this key is used as the base to generate the value of the entry for the key-value pair that is to be added to the binding secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The value of this key is used as the base to generate the value of the entry for the key-value pair to be added to the binding secret.
```

> * The value of this key is used as the value of the entry that is to be added to the binding secret.
> * In addition, the value of the `sourceKey` is used as the key of the entry that is to be added to the binding Secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The value of this key is used as the value of the key-value entry that is to be added to the binding secret.
* In addition, the value of the `sourceKey` is used as the key of the key-value entry that is to be added to the binding Secret.
```

Author: Addressed.

> * Mandatory only if `elementType`=`sliceOfMaps`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It is mandatory only if `elementType`=`sliceOfMaps`.
```
Add "It is" to get rid of the sentence fragment.

> * In addition, the value of the `sourceKey` is used as the key of the entry for the key-value pair that is to be added to the binding secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In addition, the value of the `sourceKey` is used as the key of the entry for the key-value pair to be added to the binding secret.
```

|N/A
|===

[NOTE]
====

> *  The `sourceKey` and `sourceValue` parameters are applicable only if the element indicated in the `path` parameter refers to a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` resource.

Reviewer 4: Remove the bullet, it is not a list.

Author: Good catch! Thanks again :)
